Soon after World War II,
France was in need of a labor force.
The government recruited
masses of North Africans,
particularly Algerians.
A migration of men began,
but the law did not allow them
to bring their families.
In 1974, Chirac's government wanted
to stop the continuing immigration.
Wives and children were now allowed
tojoin their husbands and fathers.
This was known as
"The Family Reunion."
Move along, please.
Move your hand!
Who are those children?
They're my son's children.
- And her?
- My son's wife.
There you go.
Thank you, son.
Zouina!
My little girl!
Let her go!
Come on, don't leave
your children. Move yourself!
My daughter!
Don't listen to her, move!
Mother!
You stupid ass!
Go!
For your children!
You must go.
- Don't leave me all alone!
- Let her go to her husband.
Keep her, I'm leaving
with the children.
Hurry up!
Shame on you.
Don't you fear God?
Hurry up! Move it!
Mother!
My little girl!
INCH'ALLAH SUNDAY
I forgot he had a moustache!
My son!
I missed you so much.
I'm well, my son,
thanks to God.
I missed you so much.
And you, how are you?
No, let me get that!
Let him, he works with me,
we call him "The Pole."
Amina, come here!
Get inside!
Mother, please go inside.
Bring the box.
Go inside.
Well, Ahmed, my brother...
goodbye,
I'm very happy for you.
Your family is here,
by the grace of Allah.
- Why don't you bring your family?
- Oh, no, I don't trust all that!
"The Family Reunion"?
No way, not for me.
I can't stand paperwork.
No trust.
10 years-- it was too much.
They were there and I was here.
I'm fed up too,
but I have a house over there.
We have to tighten our belts.
No choice.
I agree with you,
but now they're here.
- Well, I must go now.
- Stay for a coffee.
No, I must take the van back.
Goodbye, Ahmed!
- Stay!
- No, some other time.
Take good care of your family.
Go to them.
By the way,
how about the guitar?
I play well now--
G major.
I'll play
at the workers' hostel.
Things are not the same
there since you left, Ahmed.
- Well, goodbye then!
- Close this.
Here, you forgot
your briefcase.
- Stay for coffee!
- I swear I must go.
- Please stay!
- Next time, I promise.
Don't forget me, okay?
Good luck. Bye.
lam proud of you, my son.
It's a real castle, my son!
Come here, my son.
Give me the key
for the sugar and coffee.
- There is no key.
- No key?
I have a key to the house,
but not for the cupboard.
Then give it to me,
and put a lock on the cupboard.
My goodness.
All this food
not even locked up safely.
Rachid, Ali,
come over here.
Come.
Mother, have a rest.
I'll be right back.
Mother, my dear mother.
He's been living alone for a year,
where did he get them from?
That old Indian,
and all those brats!
How should I know little flower?
We don't know him.
- We never see him.
- Quiet!
"The award for the best
garden in town
will be given
in three weeks.
The winners will win
a trip to La Bourboule.
The favorites of the contest--
Mr. and Mrs. Donze."
I'm afraid this time
we're finished.
Hurry up!
You should've peeled them
faster and lay them at my feet.
You can't even
peel properly.
Mother,
here is the key.
God bless you, my son.
I have no trust in you.
Thank God he made me a key.
Damn you, mad woman,
the devil sent you!
Tomorrow, I'll take you to school.
All you need is here.
Bags, shoes,
coats, everything.
You'll come back
on your own--
Make sure you remember
the way. Understood?
Do you see that wall?
That's a factory,
You must not go there,
am I clear?
It's all broken-- dangerous.
Never go there.
- It broke all by itself?
- Yes!
- Why?
- It's dangerous!
There are thorny bushes
in the back.
Just don't go there,
okay?
I'm scared.
No, don't be scared,
Just don't go there.
Now, I have
a surprise for you.
A very nice surprise.
- Look at this!
- Wow, it's beautiful.
Amina, bring me that.
Sit down.
Bring it.
Here!
That's enough music
for now.
Look at the sage.
Don't you think
it looks sick?
- You think so?
- I'm telling you.
In fact, if you'd listened to me
for the begonias--
What--
what is she doing
with her cauldron?
Excuse me?
Hello!
You're not allowed
to do that here.
What's your problem?
She's making me coffee.
What the--
Are you making
coffee for me? No.
Coffee? No, you're not
in the Casbah here!
Coffee--
inside the house!
This is the Casbah,
and this is my son's house.
- What?
- You don't like it? Shut up!
- No!
- Yes, get me my coffee!
Hey, that's enough!
Stop it!
No respect
for the elderly!
Her again.
You'vejust arrived,
and she's already bugging you.
Hello, neighbor!
- What's your name?
- Zouina.
Oh, it sounds
like the South.
Come on, let's go.
I'm Miss Briat,
you can call me Nicole.
Oh, Nicool.
I know that name, Nicool.
We've seen your husband
alone for a while now.
He's a handsome man...
I must say
he's not a womanizer.
Well then,
I'd better get going.
I work at the factory--
you know, cosmetics.
Make-up-- you know.
Well, that's me.
Well, see you later.
You can come
for a coffee later.
You-- get inside,
hurry up!
You, "trouble face."
And now, Henry Kubnik's
"One Thousand Francs" game.
Directed by Pierre Duflot,
and hosted by Lucien Jeunesse.
Only one answer.
Ready?
What very
special invention was made
by the French astronomer
Ernest Esclangon,
Ernest Esclangon--
born in the Lower Alpes
in 1876’?
She just arrived, and she causes
a scandal with the neighbors.
Think carefully--
every second counts.
I need a precise answer.
The Time of Day.
Of course,
the Time of Day!
I said,
every second counts.
Paper and pens!
Is that tonight's dinner?
God, give me patience!
Keep writing!
So you'll be clever
when you grow up.
Ahmed is learning
to write too, just like you.
When he gets home,
show him what you did at school.
Study well.
But Daddy is older.
He'll be able to write
better than me.
God willing! God willing!
I said write,
don't draw!
You're mean!
What is "mean"?
I don't understand.
- Why are you mean?
- Me, mean? That's a good one!
You always shout
at my mama.
When she sees me,
she frowns... like this.
I never did anything
wrong to her.
She's always yakking
with the French women.
Nothing for me.
She doesn't bring me coffee,
she doesn't cook for me
or anything.
Well, you just have
to ask her.
I'm fed up
with asking her all the time.
That's enough,
finish your homework.
Mommy, when do we
celebrate the A'I'd’?
In three Sundays,
God willing.
We get...
when we get presents?
There are no Algerians
like us here.
Who are we going
to offer cakes to?
To the neighbors?
We have no relatives here.
Who are we
going to offer cakes to?
That's enough, stop it,
you can't do that here.
We have rules here,
no balls allowed.
Can't you see
this is a garden here?
Ali, what have you done!
Murderers! Slaughterers!
Oh, my God,
what is she doing?
Poor Ahmed who brought you
from Algeria--
I'm calling the police.
You disgrace us
in front of the neighbors!
You take
all your clothes off--
you mad woman!
Mommy, please stop!
If Ahmed doesn't beat you for that,
I'll deny my religion!
What's going on?
We have our papers.
Curse the devil.
Today your wife...
lifted her skirt in front
of the neighbors and disgraced us.
- When?
- This morning.
We are legal here.
I believe you,
it's not about papers.
It's the neighbor.
She filed a complaint.
It's been a mess here
for two days.
What mess?
- I've had enough!
- I'm not talking to you!
- Two days!
- I don't know him.
- I don't talk to you!
- Sir, go home.
I don't talk to you!
Mr. Lancelin,
please not now!
Don't protect these people.
I've known you since you were a kid.
- Damn you!
- Calm down, my son.
Curse the devil, my son.
I need to fill in
a report, now.
Sir, she lifted her skirt
up to here.
- What?
- Her skirt-- to here.
Her skirt?
Please, be quiet!
I was told about a rooster.
- Flowers?
- Rooster? What rooster?
A rooster, yes, strangling,
I have nothing on a skirt.
- Well, I'm taking notes.
- What notes?
I must take notes.
It's myjob.
I need you to calm down.
She lifted her skirt up to here
in front of the neighbors.
Now I need to pay a visit
to the Donzes.
- Excuse me!
- Thank you, sir.
You're welcome.
What's all this
about the skirt?
Will you be okay?
Is your wife here?
I'm with Mr. and Mrs. Donze.
Come here!
lthink
the case is settled now.
Come on!
Mrs. Donze is ready
to withdraw her complaint.
Go on, Lucienne,
shake the lady's hand.
Go ahead, move.
You are neighbors,
you must shake hands.
Go on, Lucienne!
Shake hands with her.
Let's get on with it!
Pest!
Good evening.
Get inside.
- Good evening.
- Good evening, sir.
I go to work,
and you bring the police here?
It's not me.
Damn you and your roots!
You bring the police
into my house, God damn you!
God damn you!
Get out of my way.
Slow down!
Come on,
give me your hand.
Wait.
Come here,
give me your hand.
Let's go.
This way.
Hello, Zouina!
- Nicool, how are you?
- Hi.
- How have you been?
- Good, thank you.
- Have coffee with me.
- No, thanks, I'm late.
Yes, have
a coffee with me.
By God, have some coffee.
You, go and make it.
Nicool, come here.
Sit right here.
- Nice sofa.
- Thank you.
It reminds me of my friend
Brigitte's in Paris.
She had
the same sheepskin.
But it was
on her back!
Are you
making fun of me?
Go get the coffee!
I must go!
- I'll come back, promise!
- Stay!
- No, but I'll come back!
- Why?
- I'll come back, okay?
- All right!
ljust passed by, because
I heard about that loony.
She called the police?
Shame I wasn't here!
What are you whispering?
What did she say?
- Don't smoke here!
- Whatever.
Well, I must go.
Bye!
Unbelievable.
God, put us
on the right path
Peace on you.
God, open up
the doors.
God, ease this confusion
on us and our children.
God...
your people
are in distress.
One and only God...
Save my children and every
born child in this world.
Praise the Lord.
Hi, Mommy.
I have a friend.
- A friend?
- Yes.
Come and eat your snack.
Come on, Nicolas!
Mommy, Nicolas knows
an Algerian family.
- You know an Algerian family?
- Like us.
An Algerian family like us?
Who are they?
Bouira.
Where?
12 Alouette Street.
So now we can
celebrate the A'I'd’?
Write it down.
Write...
Don't tell anyone!
Here she is!
Who is this boy?
- He's a friend!
- Your friend?
- Nicolas!
- Come with me!
Let me tell you the tale
of the egress.
Come and sit down.
Sit still,
look me in the eyes!
When the egress
catches the children,
she devours their ears...
cuts the little
girls' throats.
The little girls,
she cuts their heads off.
See, he is frightened!
The egress slaughters...
...all the little girls.
- Who is he?
- He's my friend.
Your friend?
How are you, Mom?
Fine, my son.
He knows
an Algerian family.
So he's your friend?
Children, come here.
Sit down.
Listen to what
I have to say.
You must behave at school,
and on the way back.
No more scandal,
like with the ball.
- It was Ali.
- Ali?
Mrs. Donze
killed the ball.
This is not our house.
Why?
- It is not our house, that's all.
- Is it the boss's house?
Mother, come here.
Get her a chair.
What is the boss's name?
Durieux, or Dupuis.
On Sunday...
I don't have to work,
we'll go get a sheep...
from a Moroccan guy
who lives in the country.
- A sheep?
- Can I come?
- No, you can't!
- Keep quiet!
- Why Moroccan?
- It's the same.
- There is no Algerian?
- No, only a Moroccan.
I prefer an Algerian...
who knows
how to fatten up sheeps.
But you decide.
- It's up to you, son.
- They're all the same.
Sheeps here
are French anyway.
- Who are you going with?
- "The Pole"...
and his van.
Just a few more days.
A few short days.
I'm protecting you.
Rachid, don't open
the door to anyone.
- And me?
- You stay with your mother.
Here's the Pole.
- Where are you going?
- To get the sheep.
Come quickly.
Where are we going?
Where?
You're not allowed
to go out.
Mama, we're not allowed
to leave the house.
- I'll tell Dad.
- Mama, you know we're not allowed!
If you tell him,
he'll kill me.
Where are we going?
No more tears.
It hurts the dead.
Hello!
This is Simca.
Madame, please--
lam lost.
We are looking
for the Bouiras.
Bouira, from Algeria.
lsee... Algeria.
So, you too?
Can I play
with the dog?
Yes, of course!
It's been 11 years
since I lost my dear Henry.
He is somewhere
over there--
in Algeria.
In the mountains
of Kabylia.
His body
was never recovered.
He must rest here,
no matter what.
Maybe the Bouiras
are from Kabylia’?
- Whose children are they?
- Hers.
- And the dog?
- It belongs to the lady.
- There's been an accident!
- What happened to Simca’?
- What happened?
- The dog was hit.
- Madame!
- No, not Simca!
Madame, the children are fine.
It's just the dog, it's all right.
Take her
to the hospital.
Hey, Donze, wake up!
It's the neighbor.
There's even a military convoy.
I said, come here!
lcan't see
a damn thing.
Hurry up.
What's going on here?
Come here.
Dad.
Where's dinner?
Is this dinner?
What did you do
all day?
- I was sick.
- Sick?
The children too.
You forgot Arabic.
You speak French now?
Did your mother feed you?
No, you haven't eaten?
See what I have
to put up with.
What's going on here?
We... went...
Can I go see the sheep?
- What's the matter with you?
- She is blind.
What's wrong with you today,
are you blind?
Clean it, damn you.
Clean it up.
Come on, come on.
Listen to me.
From now on, I'll be
getting home late from work,
so you have to get
the groceries.
You buy bread, milk
and that's all.
Understood?
Where is the store?
It's just there, you go
straight down, and you turn.
Understood?
This is 10 francs.
10 francs.
Don't forget the change.
You got it?
Yes.
Hurry up.
Let's go.
What are you doing?
I saw you digging
last night.
Are you doing
the contest?
It's mint.
I'm growing mint.
You have to plant
mint at night.
It's going
to invade my garden.
It grows
like a weed.
Weed?
- There you go, Mrs. Leroy.
- Thank you.
Have a nice day.
What can I do
for you, madame?
I need a little bit...
A bit of what?
- The beef.
- What piece of beef?
- Miss Luni, please.
- As you like. The usual.
- Roasting meat?
Milk, bread...
Milk, that's just behind
the vegetables.
Yes, yes,
I'll take care of it.
So what is it you want?
Milk, bread, beef?
Milk, bread, beef.
How many steaks for the beef?
Two, three-- how many?
Four.
All right, that's done.
- Goodbye, Mrs. Muzar.
- Bye.
So, what do we have?
Meat.
That makes 34.
Good lord, this is where
she puts her money.
Is that all you have?
That's not enough.
Well, never mind,
I'll put you down for credit.
You're the newcomer,
near the Donzes, aren't you?
So what's your name?
Zouina.
There you 90--
"Mr. Zouino"...
34.
Mr. Zouino
has to pay every month.
You understand?
Every month.
We're done!
Are you okay?
Very well, then. Goodbye!
Let's see--
"Memory," "Misery"...
"Wild Mint.
Also known as a native
species of France.
Pepper Mint."
- Hello, Ménie’?
- Yes.
Well, two years ago,
I was 14, and I fell in love.
So you must be 16 now.
Yes, this boy and I were
classmates, he was 16.
You know, I was very much
in love with him.
He was my first love,
but I never told him, of course.
Yes, I presume!
They say 14 years old
is too young to love,
but they're wrong.
I was so in love.
I kept on waiting,
I stopped working in class.
Well, there's nothing strange
or tragic about that.
I know my situation
wasn't desperate,
but it was
a real disaster.
What do you mean
by "disaster"?
Did you talk about
it with your mother?
I know my mother would say
that I'm too young.
She doesn't want me to go out,
she never knew about him.
What then?
He went out with another girl
from our class.
Can you open the door?
Madame, it's a game.
I ask you a question,
if you give the right answer,
you win.
Is it like
"One Thousand Francs"?
Yes, yes... "One Thousand Francs,"
you could say that.
Listen carefully
to the question.
What cleans your carpet,
eats up dust,
doesn't cost much,
and is your best friend
for all times?
Well, madame,
I'm sure you know.
I repeat!
It cleans your carpet,
eats up dust...
- lt's...’?
- The broom!
Yes, yes... a broom!
Bravo, madame, congratulations.
That wasn't easy.
Yes, a broom.
An electrical broom.
You can also call it
a vacuum cleaner.
You're the winner
of the neighborhood.
You just have to sign
this form.
I will bring your wonderful present
offered by the Malliard stores.
There's our lucky winner!
Good Lord!
Plug?
The switch.
It's perfect
for the carpet.
Try it,
see for yourself.
Your wife signed
for all the installments.
Here is the contract.
I've come for the first payment.
I'll come back every month,
same day.
You only have
11 installments left.
He said I won.
He said the "One Thousand Francs."
What thousand francs?
It's better this way.
- I need to think.
- Well, that's already done, sir.
- Your wife signed.
- She signed?
She signed.
She signed?
You know
how to sign, now?
Since she opens
the door to everyone,
I'm going to bring you
a second wife.
- That's not true!
- Yes, it is!
Because your mother
opens the door to everybody.
Damn the boat
that brought you here!
Zouina, wait!
Did you go shopping?
What did you buy?
- There's something wrong?
- I'm fine.
You're very nice to me...
like a sister.
I like you very much.
Bye, Zouina!
Oh, Mother!
I have a secret
that only I know.
lam hiding a sadness,
an eternal love.)
An eternal love
an eternal love.
My eye is crying,
my heart is broken.
my heart is broken,
To my country I'm going back
to see my friends and family.
Who is it?
It's Mrs. Manant,
the colonel's widow!
Do you remember me?
Who is it?
- Can I come in?
- No, I can't, I can't.
- Who is she?
- Hello, madame!
It's the woman
from the grocery store.
The grocer's...
...
Sit down.
Zouina, I want
to thank you for Simca.
This is a beautiful book
on Algeria.
How can she know
about Algeria?
Poor Algeria.
I left Algeria behind.
All my life, I worked hard,
it's God's will.
I suffered,
I worked for the settlers.
I was beaten with a cane.
I was never fortunate.
But I am grateful.
Go and make some coffee.
Excuse me.
Tell me about Simca.
Does she have a real grave?
Yes, it's
all over for her!
Don't say a word!
She is very mean!
lknow where
the Bouiras' house is.
Lou-- Louette Street?
No-- "Alouette."
I've tried,
but I can't find it.
You'll help me won't you?
You'll help me?
Of course
I will help you.
- Sugar?
- No thank you. I never take sugar.
- Sugar.
- No, thank you.
You must leave.
Please go.
All right,
but you must come to see me.
Leave now. Now.
- Goodbye, madame!
- Goodbye.
Coffee without sugar?
I don't get it.
It's poison.
"Dear friends, thank you.
Dear friends, I am proud...
to see my hard work
rewarded at last.
I would like to thank
the company, "Good Seed"...
who helped me give
my flowers their brightness.
We won, we did it.
We won, in spite
of the
obstacles.
And believe me,
there were many...
...obstac
es
Lucienne, my little flower,
who are you talking to?
Here.
Dear God.
Have some orange juice,
children.
No? Would you like
some cookies, then?
Wait, I need
to talk to you.
Come on, children,
go and play in the garden.
I'll be right back.
I can only be there
at 3 o'clock.
What does the sheep
look like?
It's so big,
it won't get
through the door.
What are you doing?
Making pastry with your face?
What's the matter
with you?
Look at your face!
I swear once and for all...
I swear I'm going
to go to Algiers...
and bring
the second wife here.
She scrubs all day.
Get that into your head!
Look at your face!
Do you want to beat me?
Oh God, what a curse!
God will punish you
for all the evil things
you're doing to us.
God save us.
Want to take my picture?
You don't like it?
Nicole.
I brought you a present.
Have a look.
Do you like it?
I got you this pearly lipstick,
just like mine.
This is for the cheeks.
Last but not least, a small
bottle of "Nuit d'lvresse."
It smells good.
- Thank you.
- You're welcome.
Take a look,
there are different colors.
If she sees this...
she'll kill me.
Kill you?
I went through that too.
The mother-in-law.
Husband, mother-in-law--
for me, it's all over now.
Then I found myself here.
She's going to bring
the second wife.
What?
The second wife?
My sister-in-law's sister.
He doesn't have the right.
Yes he does.
In our country,
he even has the right to four.
Like Africans?
I'm the first, so...
I must give you a book
by that woman--
what's it called?
The word "sex" is in the title.
I don't remember.
Anyway, it'll come back to me.
This woman says that we need
to manage our sexuality.
Your body belongs to you.
My body belongs to me!
I'm the one who decides.
I listened on the radio,
just after "One Thousand Francs."
Oh, I like
"One Thousand Francs."
I've set up an organization
for divorced women...
Besides my job.
We hang out,
we go dancing.
You could come
with us sometime.
Oh, no!
It's a sin.
Oh, my goodness.
Here's a ray of sunshine.
I'd better not miss it.
The usual, milk, bread?
I added some sardines.
They're on sale.
I'll write it down,
as usual.
Look what happens
when you turn your back, son.
Under your own roof.
Look what I found.
France is messing up
her brain.
She wants to be
like French women.
I don't know what this book is.
Look what's in this bag.
Have a good look!
- Where did she get this?
- That I don't know!
If you want to keep your honor,
and your moustache...
- Where did she get this?
- Ask her!
Where did you
get this from?
Damn you!
Where did you get this?
You know how to read now?
You know how to read now’?
Goddamn you!
See you later.
Who is it?
I'm looking for Bouira.
- Mouloud, who is it?
- I don't know!
Are you Bouira’?
Come inside.
Please, come in.
Go and play outside.
Take your coat off.
Welcome.
I'm Zouina.
My name is Malika,
I'm from Annaba.
Make yourself comfortable.
As soon as I learned you lived here,
I wanted to visit you.
I'll make some coffee.
You just arrived too?
14...
15 years...
15 years here in France.
15 years?
Where is your man?
Where is he?
She is beautiful.
Go get the semolina.
Go.
Unfortunately,
I have three daughters.
But I don't worry
for her anymore.
Her father promised her
to a cousin.
I'm not worried for her.
lam very lucky.
How about your husband?
Where is he?
Pour.
Enough.
Do you listen
to the radio?
Do you know the game
"One Thousand Francs"?
You don't.
Do you know
"Ménie Grégoire"?
That's French women--
they talk.
They talk
about sexuality, love...
Sexuality?
That's shameful!
Talk on the radio...
Pour.
That's enough.
That's France.
Malika...
I've been looking for you
for three Sundays.
I've been looking,
looking all over.
I've crossed fields, roads--
I looked and looked
and I couldn't find you!
It's the French woman,
she brought me here in a taxi.
I want to celebrate A'I'd
with you and the children.
The woman is gone crazy!
Cursed be the devil!
Your husband,
he says nothing?
You don't understand.
You always ask
about my husband.
My husband
doesn't know anything.
You don't hide things
from your husband?
She's completely mad!
As if I don't have enough problems!
You want me dead?
Get out of my house.
Get the hell out of here.
Out!
With all the troubles
I already have?
Leave this place--
leave my house.
Out!
Trouble...
This is trouble!
Get out!
Mouloud, get inside!
Malika!
Malika, open the door!
Please, let me in.
Malika!
Please, don't abandon me!
Malika, don't abandon me!
I beg you!
Open the door!
Don't leave me out here!
Malika!
Don't abandon me.
Don't leave me here.
Are you hurt?
No, it's okay.
No, please, no!
Just seeing you here is--
Come on,
get a move on!
Please, stay by my side.
Everybody off the bus.
This is the last stop,
get off.
Out!
You idiot, we've been
waiting for four hours!
We were sick with worry!
- Shame on you!
- Shut your mouth!
From now on,
you don't say a thing.
Leave her alone.
Go away!
Look what France
has done to me.
My son's screaming at me
before the A'I'd.
Tomorrow...
I'll be the one
taking you to school.